30.Firebase: New software workshop (#52)
PoCInnovation/Workshops: software/30.Firebase/README.md

# Workshop 30 - Firebase ✨

✔️ Discover the power of an app development platform

✔️ Create a collection in a NoSQL database

✔️ Build an authentication system

✔️ Get a preview of serverless functions    

## Step 0 - Initialization

All the required information to install the workshop's dependencies are given in the [SETUP.md](./SETUP.md)

### Step 0.5 - Create your project
Let's create your firebase project 🚀  
For this, you should go to [the firebase console](https://console.firebase.google.com/) and choose a name for your project (you can use `firebase-workshop-poc` for example 😉)

Firebase will then take you to a dashboard where you will be able to select an app on which you want to add Firebase:  
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/49811529/193420648-40733ffd-a5f3-4935-915a-5c599d5476dd.png)

Click on the web icon `</>`, you'll need to enter a name once again (using the same name as before is fine).
> 💡 Don't select the hosting option, it's another great feature of Firebase but we won't cover it here

> And just with those few clicks we are done!  

Author: nope, it's basically the advanced setup to do during the workshop

Firebase should give you a command to run in your local project to install the firebase package, as long as some starter code that you can paste in your `index.js` 🤩

## Step 1 - Authentication
Now we are ready to use our first Firebase service: Authentication 🔒  
You just have to activate the `Email/Password` provider in the `Sign-in method` section of [your firebase console](https://console.firebase.google.com/):  
![auth-console](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/49811529/193460013-bda98391-0964-4481-a91f-e4029812ac2f.png)

And you are ready to code!
Let's write some code to create an account in `index.js` in a function with the following prototype:  
```javascript

> function register(req, res) {

Reviewer: That will not work if you use `async/await`, and why does further implementation have `async` keyword but not this one?
Always be consistent, it's important so you do not lose your reader.

    // Complete this code
}

app.post('/register', register);
```

> > This function will be executed every time a `POST` request is made to `localhost:4000/register` 😉

Reviewer: Example of a request? :)
`curl -X POST ....`

> Your objective is to retrieve the `email` and `password` from the request body, create a user in Firebase, and return the registered user object on success (or an error message on failure).

Reviewer: Do you expect any special status code on success/error?

> 💡 You'll deal with [Promises](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise), so you'll need to use the [.then() and .catch() methods](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/javascript-promise-methods/)

>  to return data, or [`async/await`](https://javascript.info/async-await) if you prefer

Reviewer: Just `async/await` please, `.then` and `.catch` are messy...
Add an example of usage, people are not always fluent with async.

To test your function, we created a frontend for you 🎉, here's how to launch it:
```shell
# Go in the folder
cd frontend

# Install dependencies
npm install && npm install -g ng

# Start the project
npm start
```

> Then you can go to http://localhost:4200/register and try to create your user (check in Firebase if it worked)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you can go to `http://localhost:4200/register` and try to create your user (check in Firebase if it worked)
```

> > You can also use the browser console to debug, but some non-related error messages may appear due to other routes have not created... yet 😉

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> :bulb: You can also use the browser console to debug, but some non-related error messages may appear due to other routes not being created... yet 😉
```

## Step 2 - Login and logout
Let's make sure you have understand how authentication works in Firebase 😄

> Nothing new here, you have to create 2 other endpoints (`/login` and `/logout`, using the `POST` method as before)

Reviewer: Why did you put `/login` and `/logout` in parentheses? It's an important part of the subect.

 to complete your authentication workflow 🔥
```javascript
async function login(req, res) {
    // complete this code
}
async function logout(req, res) {
    // complete this code
}
```

> Again, you can test using the frontend at http://localhost:4200/login and with the logout button 😉

## Step 3 - Firestore, a NoSQL cloud database
Authentication is great, but we can do a lot more with other Firebase products, like Firestore 💥  
It's a flexible database to store any type of data that you want, with out of the box synchronization to keep your data updated in realtime between your clients and server 😍

Back to your project dashboard, select Cloud Firestore and create a database 🔥

![cloud-firestore](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/49811529/193421532-f8281f56-f7e5-47ac-a6af-ce88ef0bd98a.png)

> > 💡 You can use the test mode to avoid setting up security rules

Reviewer: You can or they should in this workshop?

> Select a location near you for better performance, like `eur3 (europe-west)` in our case 😉

## Create a collection

> Let's create a collection:

Reviewer: What is a collection?

Click on `+ Start collection` and create one named `Books`.
You can then use the Auto-ID option 😄

The last thing to do is to create the 2 fields we will use:
- `author` of type `string`
- `title` of type `string`

> > Don't forget to add default values for these fields 😉

Reviewer: What should be the default value then??

Now let's code 🚀

## Add a book

Create an endpoint `/book` using the `POST` method to add a new document in Firestore 🔥

Same as before, you'll the use a code similar to this one:
```javascript
async function addBook(req, res) {
    // complete this code
}

app.post("/book", addBook);
```

> You need to import the functions necessary to interact with your Firestore instance from `firebase/firestore` 😉

> > 💡 The [documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/quickstart#web-version-9) is very complete

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 💡 This [documentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/quickstart#web-version-9) can help you understand how to use Firestore SDK.
```

You can use the frontend and then check your Firebase console if the document was added 😉

## Step 4 - Retrieve the books

Adding a book is great, but we want to be able to display them in our app too 🙂

Let's see if you've understood how it works by creating an endpoint `/books` to return all the books in the collection with a `GET` method:
```javascript
async function getBooks(req, res) {
    // complete this code
}
```

If you do it right, the front should automatically display them in the home page 🥳

### Step 5 - Cloud functions
This last step is a bit more complicated: until now, all the functions you've written are exposed in an express API that should be reachable anytime for your frontend to work.

> In today's world, a lot of applications choose to use [a serverless backend](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/serverless/what-is-serverless/) instead of fixed amounts of servers to handle incoming requests.

Reviewer: Why?
